[BELL TOLLING DISTANTLY]
[FUNERAL MARCH PLAYING]
[GUN FIRING]
[GIRL SCREAMING]
[GUNSHOTS ECHOING]
[EXCLAIMING IN ITALIAN]
[PEOPLE SHOUTING IN ITALIAN]
They've killed the boy!
They've killed young Paolo!
[WOMAN SHRIEKING]
They've killed your son Paolo!
Murderers! Murderers!
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
My son...
[SOBBING]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
All my respect, Don Ciccio.
You killed my husband because
he wouldn't give in to you.
And his oldest son Paolo...
...because he swore revenge.
But Vito is only nine.
And dumb-witted.
He never speaks.
It's not his words
I'm afraid of.
[CICCIO LAUGHING]
He's weak.
He couldn't hurt anyone.
[CICCIO SPEAKING ITALIAN]
But when he grows,
he'll grow strong.
Don't worry. This little boy
can't do a thing to you.
When he's a man, he'll
come for revenge.
I beg you, Don Ciccio,
spare my only son.
He's all I have left.
I swear to God he'll never do
you any harm. Spare him!
No.
[IN ITALIAN]
Move and I'll kill him!
Run, Vito!
Run away!
Kill him!
Any family who hides the boy
Vito Andolini will regret it!
You understand?
Will regret badly!
Anybody who hides the boy
Vito Andolini is in for trouble!
[CHURCH BELL TOLLING]
Quick!
Beware!
Vito, we're praying for you!
If anyone is hiding the boy
Vito Andolini...
...turn him over to us.
Don Ciccio
will thank you for it!
It'll be better for the boy,
and better for you!
Any family who hides the boy
Vito Andolini will regret it!
We've arrived!
Nurse.
[BAWLING]
Money?
[PEOPLE CHATTERING
IN VARIOUS LANGUAGES]
Interpreter!
OFFICER: Where are you from?
What is your name?
Maria.
Come on, son.
What is your name?
Your name.
MAN: Vito Andolini
from Corleone.
Corleone. Vito Corleone.
Okay, over there.
Next.
Your name?
Tell him he has smallpox.
Quarantine three months.
MAN: Vito Corleone!
Vito Corleone!
Here he is.
This is him.
[DOOR SLAMMING]
[GULLS CAWING]
[SINGING IN ITALIAN]
[CHURCH ORGAN PLAYING]
[PRIEST RECITING IN LATIN]
[SPEAKING LATIN]
[UPBEAT MUSIC PLAYING]
MAN: Did you bring
the car keys?
WOMAN: Laurie! Laurie!
[GUESTS APPLAUDING]
[BAND RESUMES PLAYING MUSIC]
Mama!
Oh! Mama!
[SIGHS]
Look who's here.
Ah! Father Carmelo. Connie, how are you?
This is
Father Carmelo.
I'm Merle Johnson. Pleased to meet you.
Mama!
Here I am.
Constanzia, finalmente,
after one week?
I sent the car to the airport
last week to pick you up. Oh.
It was chaos.
Anyway, here I am, just one week late.
Oh!
And this is for my mama!
What is this?
You remember Merle, don't you?
Hello, Mama. Hello.
How are you? Thank you.
Where's Michael?
I've got to talk to him
and get a few things straight
and I can't wait on line.
You go see your
children first.
And then you worry about waiting
on line to see your brother.
Like everybody else.
[CEREMONIAL MUSIC PLAYING]
CONDUCTOR: [ON MICROPHONE]
Ladies and gentlemen...
CICCI: Frank, wake up.
CONDUCTOR: A most distinguished
guest would like to say a few words.
Would you please welcome Senator
Pat Geary of the State of Nevada.
[GUESTS APPLAUDING]
And there is Mrs. Geary.
GEARY: Thank you very
much, ladies and gentlemen.
This is a very,
very happy day
for me and, uh, my wife
Mrs. Geary.
We see Nevada
far too seldom.
But particularly today
when we can...
We can join with old friends,
we can make new friends
and we help celebrate a
young man's first Communion.
And also to thank
that boy's family
for a magnificent
contribution to the State.
I have here
in my hand a check
made out to
the university
and it is a magnificent
endowment in the name of...
[PEOPLE APPLAUDING]
Uh...
[MISPRONOUNCING]
Anthony Vito Corleone.
And the check is signed by
that young man's parents
whom I think
we should recognize.
Mike, Pat, uh, Kay,
stand up, please.
Stand up.
Let the folks see you!
Folks, I want you
to join with me
in giving a real
Nevada "Thank you" [DRUMROLL]
to Mr. and Mrs.
Michael Corleone!
[INAUDIBLE]
We also have, as a special added attraction,
the Sierra Boys Choir
who have chosen a certain special song and a special arrangement
to honor their host, Mr. Michael Corleone.
Boys.
[PIANO MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHOIR SINGING]
PHOTOGRAPHER: The plaque.
Okay, fellows,
did you get that one?
Okay, that's good.
Now, Senator,
just you and Mrs. Corleone.
This is my lawyer Tom Hagen,
Senator Geary.
He's the one who arranged this whole
thing through your man Turnbull.
Yes, yes.
Sit down.
Well, I was under the impression
that you and I would talk alone.
I trust these men
with my life, Senator.
If I were to ask them to
leave, it would be an insult.
Well, it's perfectly
all right with me
but I should tell you that I am
a blunt man and I intend to speak
very frankly to you.
Maybe more frankly
than anyone in my position
has ever talked to you before.
The Corleone family has done
very well here in Nevada.
You own, or control,
two major hotels in Vegas
and one in Reno.
The licenses were
grandfathered in,
so there was no problem
with the Gaming Commission.
Now my sources tell me
that you plan to make a
move against the Tropigala.
They tell me
that within a week,
you're going to
move Klingman out.
That's quite an expansion.
However, it will leave you with
one little technical problem.
[GULPS]
The license will still be
in Klingman's name.
Turnbull is
a good man.
Yeah, well, let's cut out
the bullshit.
I don't want to spend more
time here than I have to.
You can have
the license.
The price is
$250,000.
Plus a monthly payment
of five percent of the gross
of all four hotels, Mr., uh,
[EMPHASIZES ITALIAN
PRONUNCIATION] Corleone.
Now the price
for the license
is less than
$20,000, am I right?
GEARY: That's right.
Now why would I ever consider
paying more than that?
Because I intend
to squeeze you.
I don't like
your kind of people.
I don't like to see you come out to
this clean country in your oily hair
dressed up in
those silk suits,
trying to pass yourselves off
as decent Americans.
I'll do business with you,
but the fact is that
I despise your masquerade,
the dishonest way
you pose yourself.
Yourself and your whole
fucking family.
Senator,
we're both part of
the same hypocrisy.
But never think
it applies to my family.
[DISMISSIVELY]
All right, all right.
Some people have to
play little games.
You play yours.
So let's just say that you'll pay me
because it's in your interest to pay me.
But I want your answer and
the money by noon tomorrow.
And one more thing.
Don't you
contact me again, ever.
From now on
you deal with Turnbull.
Open that door, son.
Senator, you can have
my answer now if you like.
My offer is this...
Nothing.
Not even the fee
for the gaming license,
which I would appreciate if
you would put up personally.
[CHUCKLING]
Good afternoon,
gentlemen.
Ladies! I didn't know
you were out here.
Honey, we have to go.
We're 30 minutes late.
KAY: Oh, really? I'm sorry.
GEARY: Mrs. Corleone, it's
been delightful. Thank you. KAY: Oh, no...
It was our pleasure. Thank you so much,
it was wonderful talking with you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[INDISTINCT CHATTERING]
Fredo! Fredo, you son of a
bitch, you look great!
Frank Pentangeli!
I thought you was never coming out
west, you big bum!
I've got to check
on my boys.
Hey, Fredo, what's with
the food around here? What's the matter?
A kid comes up to me
in a white jacket,
gives me a Ritz cracker with
chopped liver and says, "canapes."
I said, "Can of peas, my ass. That's
a Ritz cracker and chopped liver!"
[LAUGHING]
Bring out the peppers
and sardines!
Oh, seeing you reminds me of New
York, the old days!
Hey, Fredo,
you remember, uh, Willi Cicci, who
was with old man Clemenza in Brooklyn?
Yeah, look here...
We were all upset about that, Frankie.
Heart attack, huh?
No, no, that was
no heart attack.
That's... That's what I'm here
to see your brother Mike about.
But what's
with him?
What do you mean?
I mean,
what do I got to do,
do I have to get a letter of
introduction to get a sit-down?
You... You can't get in
to see Mike?
He's got me
waiting in a lobby!
Johnny Ola.
Al Neri.
Do you know my lawyer
Tom Hagen? Johnny Ola... Sure...
I remember Tom
from the old days.
Rocco.
What's this?
It's an orange
from Miami.
Why don't you take care
of Johnny's men?
They look like
they might be hungry.
Johnny?
Tom isn't gonna sit in
with us, Johnny.
He only handles specific areas
of the family business. Tom...
Sure, Mike.
What are you
drinking, Johnny?
Anisette.
If you need anything, Mike,
I'll be outside, all right?
MICHAEL: Just tell Rocco
we're waiting, Tom.
JOHNNY: I just left, uh,
Mr. Roth in Miami.
MICHAEL: How is his health?
JOHNNY: Ah, it's not good.
[SIGHS]
MICHAEL: Is there anything
I can do, anything I can send?
JOHNNY: He appreciates your
concern, Michael, and your respect.
That casino you are
interested in...
The registered owners are
Jacob Lawrence, Allan Barclay.
Both Beverly Hills
attorneys.
The real owners are the old
Lakeville Road group from Cleveland
and our friend
in Miami.
Meyer Klingman runs the store.
he owns a piece of it
too, he does all right.
But I've been instructed
to tell you
that if you move Klingman out,
our friend in Miami will go along.
It's very kind of him.
You tell him
it's greatly appreciated.
Hyman Roth always makes
money for his partners.
One by one,
our old friends are gone.
Death, natural or not,
prison, deported...
Hyman Roth is
the only one left,
because he always made
money for his partners.
[GRUNTS]
I can't believe it! Out of
30 professional musicians
there isn't one Italian in,
in the group here.
Come on. Let's have
a tarantella! Come on...
[VOCALIZING]
[PIANO PLAYING]
You! Up!
Clarinet up, up, up!
[HUMMING TARANTELLA]
This arm!
[HUMMING]
[PLAYING POP!
GOES THE WEASEL]
[PEOPLE LAUGHING]
What the hell have we here?
[GUESTS APPLAUDING]
I'll see my
sister alone.
It concerns me too.
Is it okay if I stay?
How are you, honey? You've met
Merle, he was with me in Vegas.
I saw him with you.
Could I have a drink
or something?
Boy...
Al, would you please
get him a drink!
We're going to Europe next week.
I'd like to book passage on The Queen.
So what do you come to me for?
Why don't you go to a travel agent?
We're getting
married first.
The ink on your divorce isn't dry
yet, and you're getting married?
You see your children
on weekends.
You know your oldest boy,
Victor, was picked up in Reno
for some petty theft
you don't even know about. Michael!
You fly around the world with men who don't
care for you and use you like a whore.
You're not my father!
Then what do you
come to me for?
'Cause I need money.
Connie, Connie, Connie,
Connie, Connie, Connie...
[EXHALES DEEPLY]
I want to be
reasonable with you.
Now why don't you stay here
with us, with the family?
You can live here on the
estate with your kids.
You won't be deprived
of anything.
You can have everything
you want.
I don't know this Merle.
I don't know what he does.
I don't know what he lives on.
Now why don't you tell him that
marriage is out of the question,
and you don't want
to see him any more.
He'll understand,
believe me.
[EXHALES FORCEFULLY]
Connie.
If you don't
listen to me
and marry this man...
You'll disappoint me.
[CLASSICAL MUSIC PLAYING
OVER P.A.]
WOMAN: Famiglia!
ALL: Cent' anni!
What's
"Chen dannay"?
"Cent' anni".
It means 100 years.
It means we should all live
happily for 100 years. The family.
It would be true
if my father were alive.
MAMA CORLEONE: Connie.
Hey...
Merle, you've met my
sister-in-law, Deanna.
Fredo's wife.
My pleasure.
How do you do?
With all respect, I didn't
come here to eat dinner!
I know, I know.
Well...
[BAND PLAYING MUSIC]
[INAUDIBLE]
[DRUNKENLY] What's the matter?
I just... I just want to dance!
Dancing is one thing.
you're falling all over the floor.
DEANNA: Oh, I know
what's the matter with you.
You're just jealous
because he's a real man!
I swear to God, Deanna, I'm going
to belt you right in the teeth.
Ah! You couldn't belt
your mama!
You know something...
These Dagos are crazy
when it comes to their wives.
Michael says that if you
can't take care of this,
I have to.
I think
you'd better.
DEANNA:
Never marry a Wop.
They treat their
wives like shit!
I didn't mean
to say Wop.
[SCREAMS] Don't! Rocco!
What are you doing to me,
you big slob? Help!
Fredo!
I can't control
her, Mikey.
You're my brother, Fredo,
you don't have to apologize to me.
Clemenza promised the Rosato brothers three
territories in the Bronx after he died.
You took over and
you didn't give it to them.
I welched.
MICHAEL: You welched.
Yeah. Clemenza promised them
lu cazzo.
Clemenza promised them
nothing.
He hated those son of a
bitches more than I do.
Frankie,
they feel cheated.
Michael, you're sitting high up in the
Sierra mountains. And you're drinking, uh...
What's he drinking?
Champagne.Champagne.
Champagne cocktails.
And passing judgment
on how I run my family.
Your family?
Your family's still
called Corleone.
And you'll run it
like a Corleone.
My family doesn't eat here,
doesn't eat in Las Vegas...
...and doesn't eat in Miami...
...with Hyman Roth!
You're a good old man
and I like you.
You were loyal
to my father for years.
The Rosato brothers,
they're taking hostages.
And Mike, they spit
right in my face,
all because they're backed
up by that Jew in Miami.
I know. That's why I
don't want them touched.
You don't want
'em touched? No.
I want you
to be fair with them.
You want me to
be fair with them?
[LAUGHS] How can you
be fair to animals?
Tom, for Crissakes, listen. They
recruit spics, they recruit niggers.
They do violence in their,
in their grandmothers' neighborhoods!
And I tell you, everything
with them is whores! Whores!
And junk, dope!
And they leave
the gambling to last.
I want to run my family
without you on my back.
And I want those
Rosato brothers dead!
No.
Dead.
Now I have business that's
important with Hyman Roth.
I don't want it
disturbed.
And you give your loyalty to
a Jew before your own blood.
Come on, Frankie,
you know my father did business
with Hyman Roth. He respected him.
Your father did business with Hyman
Roth, your father respected Hyman Roth,
but your father
never trusted Hyman Roth
or his Sicilian messenger
boy, Johnny Ola.
[SPEAKS ITALIAN]
You'll have to excuse me.
I'm tired, and I'm a little drunk!
[IN ENGLISH] I want
everybody here to know,
there's not going to be
no trouble from me!
Don Corleone.
[IN ITALIAN]
Cicci, the door...
[DOOR SLAMMING]
[SIGHS]
You want him
to leave now?
Let him go back
to New York.
I've already made
my plans.
The old man
had too much wine.
It's late.
[BAND PLAYING MUSIC]
How's the baby?
Sleeping inside me.
Does it feel
like a boy?
Yes. Yes, it does, Michael.
Kay?
Hmm?
I'm sorry about
all the people today.
Bad timing.
It couldn't be
helped, though.
It made me think of
what you once told me.
"In five years
the Corleone family
"will be completely
legitimate."
That was
seven years ago.
I know.
I'm trying, darling.
Did you see this?
Mmm-hmm.
[THUNDER RUMBLING]
Michael, why are
the drapes open?
[GUN FIRING]
[GUNFIRE STOPS]
[SHATTERED GLASS TINKLING]
[MICHAEL PANTING]
Kay, are you
all right?
Are you hit?
[PANTING] No.
[SOOTHINGLY]
It's over. It's over.
[ALARM RINGING]
MAN: Stop! Stop!
Halt!
[TIRES SCREECHING]
[DOGS BARKING]
They're still
on the property.
Please, Michael.
Please stay inside.
Keep them alive.
We'll try.
Rocco! Alive!
Stay by the door.
[ALL CLAMORING]
[DOGS BARKING]
[TIRES SCREECHING]
[EXHALES SLOWLY]
[MAN SHOUTING INDISTINCTLY]
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Yeah, come in.
Mikey, are you
all right?
Yeah.
Yeah?
There's a lot
I can't tell you, Tom.
And I know that's
upset you in the past.
A little.
Yeah.
You felt it was because of some
lack of trust or confidence.
But it's, it's because
I admire you and love you
that I kept things
secret from you.
That's why at his moment you're
the only one I completely trust.
Fredo?
Well, he's got
a good heart.
But he's weak
and he's stupid,
and this is
life and death.
Tom, you're my brother.
[SIGHS]
[VOICE TREMBLING] I always wanted to be
thought of as a brother by you, Mikey.
A real brother.
I know that.
You're going
to take over.
You're going to be
the Don.
If what I think has
happened, has happened,
I'm gonna leave here tonight.
I give you
complete power, Tom.
Over Fredo and his men.
Rocco, Neri, everyone.
I'm trusting you with the lives
of my wife and my children,
the future of this family.
If we catch these guys, do you think we'll
be able to find out who's back of all this?
MICHAEL: We're not gonna
catch them.
Unless I'm very wrong,
they're dead already.
They were killed
by somebody close to us.
Inside.
Very, very frightened
that they botched it.
What about your people
Rocco and Neri?
You don't think that they
had something to do with this.
You see...
All our people
are businessmen.
Their loyalty
is based on that.
One thing I learned
from Pop
was to try to think
as people around you think.
Now, on that basis,
anything is possible.
[SCREAMING]
Mike, they're dead!
Right out my window!
I want to get out of here.
They're lying there dead!
[SCREAMING]
[DOGS BARKING]
MAN: Over here!
There's two of them.
Looks like they were hired out of
New York. I don't recognize them.
You won't get anything
out of them now.
Fish them out.
All right.
Get rid of the bodies.
Where's Mike?
Rocco.
[WHISPERING]
Anthony,
everything is going to be all right.
Try to sleep.
Did you like
your party?
I got lots
of presents.
MICHAEL: I know.
Did you like them?
Yeah. I didn't know the
people who gave them to me.
Hmm. Well, they were friends.
Did you see
my present for you?
It was on my pillow.
Anthony, I'm going to be
leaving very early tomorrow.
Will you take me?
No, I can't, Anthony.
Why do you have to go?
Because I have to do
business.
I could help you.
I know.
Someday you will.
Get some sleep. Hmm?
[COOING]
[ALL SINGING IN ITALIAN]
[IN ITALIAN]
She's really beautiful.
You've got to see her.
[MAN WOLF-WHISTLING]
[CROWD CHEERING
AND APPLAUDING]
Wait till you see her.
Words can't describe her.
[BAND PLAYING MUSIC]
[IN ITALIAN]
I left Naples. I left Mama.
For a no-good tramp!
Now here I am in America,
in New York.
Alone! Thinking of my mother.
Without news from home.
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
[CHUCKLES]
Peppino! A letter for you!
Finally, a letter from Naples!
Vito, how do you like my little angel?
Isn't she beautiful?
She's very beautiful.
To you, she's beautiful. For me,
there's only my wife and son.
Our dear mother
is dead!
[AUDIENCE EXCLAIMING]
Mamma! Mamma mia!
[SOBBING]
[BAND PLAYS MUSIC]
[SINGING IN ITALIAN]
We'll take her to eat later.
We'll go backstage later
and take her to eat.
Sit down, you bum!
Oh, excuse me, Don Fanucci.
We'll go see her backstage.
Who was that?
The Black Hand.
[GASPS]
Let's go!
[IN ENGLISH] Let's go
see her backstage.
Excuse me.
That's Fanucci... the Black Hand.
We'll talk about it tomorrow.
Tomorrow! Always tomorrow!
You'll pay me today!
[GASPING]
[PROTESTING]
How beautiful!
Let's go.
Not my daughter! Let her go!
Here, take all my money!
[IN ENGLISH]
Vito, come on.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
I know what you're thinking. But
you don't know how things are.
Fanucci's with the Black Hand.
The whole neighborhood pays him.
Even my father,
in the grocery store.
If he's Italian...
...why does he bother
other Italians?
He knows they have nobody
to protect them.
Forget that.
Did you like my angel?
If you're happy, I'm happy.
[IN ITALIAN]
Don't you feel well?
Is your boss
treating you all right?
Forget it.
[MAN BECKONING]
MAN: Hey,
you speak Italian?
[CLEMENZA SPEAKING IN ITALIAN]
Hide this for me!
Next week I'll come and get it!
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Abbandando, meet my nephew!
How's business?
[MUTTERS]
[CASH REGISTER BELL DINGS]
[LAUGHING]
It's good, it's good.
Thank God...
Fanucci's mad. Says the
neighborhood's getting sloppy.
People don't pay on time,
don't pay the full amount.
Says he's been too nice
to everyone.
So Fanucci's changing?
Sure. He wants double
from everybody.
Even from my father.
I'm a friend, right? So you'll
let him work here?
I thank you.
Vito, come here.
I've got some bad news.
I feel rotten about
telling you this...
But Fanucci...
he's got a nephew...
[MUTTERING]
And you have to give him my job.
You've always been good to me,
ever since I came here.
You looked after me
like a father.
I thank you.
And I won't forget it.
MAN: Vito!
Oh, no, no! No.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Take this to your family.
Thanks anyway. But please,
I can't accept.
[SPEAKS ITALIAN]
What a nice pear!
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
I'm Clemenza, you still
have my goods?
Did you look inside?
I'm not interested in things
that don't concern me.
A friend of mine has a nice rug.
Maybe your wife would like it.
Sure she would. But who has
money for a rug?
It would be a present.
I know how to return a favor.
[IN ENGLISH]
Yeah, sure.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
My wife would like it.
[CHUCKLES SOFTLY]
Let's go, Vito!
[DOORBELL BUZZES]
That son of a bitch!
He isn't home!
Damn, he didn't even
leave the key.
Well, he won't mind.
[DOOR OPENS]
[IN ENGLISH]
Come on in.
Hey, Vito, come on in!
He is a friend.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
This is your friend's place?
Yes, sure.
This is a real palace.
One of the best.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Vito, give me a hand,
will you?
[KNOCKING ON DOOR]
Shut up!
[DOORBELL CHIMING]
[SINGING SOFTLY
IN ITALIAN]
[BABY CRYING]
[CONTINUES CRYING]
Look how pretty
it is, Santino!
[SOBBING]
[TRAIN HORN BLOWING]
MRS. ROTH: [IN ENGLISH]
Come on in.
It's all right. Come on.
Hyman's in there.
I was just making
some lunch...
Would you like
a tuna sandwich?
Uh, no, thank you.
[MAN SPEAKING INDISTINCTLY
ON TV]
MAN: [ON TV] ...pick up of two by
Holden. Second and eight for S.C...
MICHAEL: Mr. Roth?
Come in, Michael.
[CLEARS THROAT]
Sit down,
make yourself comfortable.
It's almost over.
Do you follow
the football game?
Not for a while
I haven't.
I enjoy watching football
in the afternoon.
One of the things I love
about this country.
Baseball too.
I love baseball...
Ever since Arnold Rothstein
fixed the World Series in 1919.
[ROTH CHUCKLING]
I heard you had some trouble.
Stupid.
People behaving like that
with guns.
The important thing is
you're all right.
Good health is the most
important thing.
More than success,
more than money.
More than power.
[OBJECTS CLATTERING]
[RAISES TV VOLUME]
[CLEARS THROAT]
[SOFTLY] I came here because
there's going to be more bloodshed.
I want you to know about it
before it happens
so that there's no danger
of starting another war.
Nobody wants
another war.
Frank Pentangeli came to my
home and he asked my permission
to get rid of
the Rosato brothers.
When I refused he tried to
have me killed.
He was stupid,
I was lucky.
I'll visit him soon.
The important thing
is that nothing
interferes with our plans for
the future. Yours and mine.
Nothing is
more important.
You're a wise and
considerate young man.
And you're a great
man, Mr. Roth.
There's much
I can learn from you.
Whatever I can do
to help, Michael.
MRS. ROTH: Excuse me.
Lunch.
Come in.
Thank you,
my dear.
Honey Bunny, you're going to
break your eardrums.
[LOWERS TV VOLUME]
Enjoy it.
ROTH: Thank you.
[DOOR CLOSES]
You're young,
I'm old and sick.
What we'll do together
in the next few months
will make history, Michael.
History. It's never been
done before.
Not even your father
would dream
that such a thing
could be possible.
Then Pentangeli
is a dead man.
You don't object?
He's small potatoes.
MAN: Hey, Cicc'!
What's up?
We got company, huh?
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Michael Corleone is here.
He's in your den.
You better hurry.
He's been waiting
a half hour.
Is something wrong?
Don Corleone.
I... I wish you would have
let me know you were coming.
I could have
prepared something for you.
I didn't want you
to know I was coming.
[DOORS CLOSING]
You heard what happened
in my home?
Mike, I almost died myself,
we was all so relieved...
In my home!
In my bedroom
where my wife sleeps!
Where my children
come and play with their toys.
In my home.
I want you to help me
take my revenge.
Michael, anything.
What can I do?
Settle these troubles
with the Rosato brothers.
Mike, I don't understand.
I don't...
Look, I don't have
your brain for big deals.
But this is
a street thing.
That Hyman Roth
in Miami. That...
He's backing up
those son of a bitches.
I know he is.
Then why... Why do you ask
me to lay down to them, Mike?
It was Hyman Roth
that tried to have me killed.
I know it was him.
Jesus Christ, Mike.
Jesus Christ, look,
let's get them all.
Let's get 'em all now,
while we got the muscle.
[SIGHS]
This used to be
my father's old study.
It's changed.
I remember there used
to be a big desk here.
I remember
when I was a kid, Frankie.
We had to be quiet when
we played near here.
I was very happy that this
house never went to strangers.
First Clemenza
took it over.
Now you.
My father taught me
many things here.
He taught me in this room.
He taught me,
"Keep your friends close,
"but your enemies closer."
Now if Hyman Roth sees
that I interceded in this thing,
in the Rosato brothers' favor,
he's gonna think his relationship
with me is still good.
You understand?
[IN ENGLISH] That's what
I want him to think.
I want him completely relaxed
and confident in our friendship.
Then I'll be able to find out
who the traitor in my family was.
[PHONE RINGING]
[PHONE CONTINUES RINGING]
[HANDSET CLATTERING]
Yeah?
JOHNNY: [OVER PHONE] Fredo,
this is Johnny... Johnny Ola.
We need some more help.
Johnny?
Jesus Christ,
what the hell time is it?
Who's that, honey?
[SHUSHING]
JOHNNY: [OVER PHONE]
Listen good, Fredo.
Why are you
calling me here for?
I don't want
to talk to you.
JOHNNY: [OVER PHONE] Pentangeli set
up a meeting with the Rosato brothers,
he says he's gonna go
for their deal.
Oh, God.
JOHNNY: [OVER PHONE] Will he come alone?
I don't know anything.
You've got me in deep enough already.
JOHNNY: [OVER PHONE] Just go along.
Everything will be all right, Fredo.
Pentangeli says he's
willing to make the deal.
All we want to know is if he's on the level, or if he's gonna bring his boys.
You guys lied to me.
I don't want you to call me any more.
JOHNNY: [OVER PHONE] Your brother's
not gonna find out we talked.
I don't know what
you're talking about.
[HANDSET CLATTERING]
[SIGHS]
Who was that?
Uh, wrong number.
[INDISTINCT CHATTERING]
Frankie, I've got
nobody here.
Wait in the car,
Cicc'.
Frankie.
That's okay, Cicc'.
What's this?
A lucky C note
for our new deal.
Ritchie.
Give us a taste.
We were all real happy
about your decision, Frankie.
You're not gonna regret it.
I don't like
the C note, Rosato.
I take that
as an insult.
[SCREAMING] Michael
Corleone says hello!
[GAGGING]
[SCREAMING]
BUTTON MAN: Get his head in.
TONY: Close the fuckin' door.
Your friend the cop,
what the...
Hey, Ritch.
It's dark in here.
Are you open or closed?
Hey, I just came in to
clean up a little, you know?
What's the matter?
Is that something
on the floor?
RITCH: Carmine, no, no,
not here! Not here!
CARMINE: Anthony!
RITCH: Not here, Carmine, let him go!
[ALL CLAMORING]
You open this fucking bar
and I'll blow your head in!
[GUNS FIRING]
[PEOPLE SCREAMING]
[TIRES SCREECHING]
[ENGINE PUTTERING]
[ENGINE STOPS]
MAN: Freddie, it's good
to see you.
How is he?
He's okay.
He's in the back.
Come on, girls,
take a hike, eh.
In this room here.
I want to talk
to him alone first.
Come on, eh?
[DOOR CLOSING]
I thought I could
help you, Senator.
Hagen?
Listen, Hagen, I did not...
TOM: I know.
It's all right.
I didn't do anything.
It's okay.
You're very lucky.
My brother Fredo
operates this place.
He was called
before anyone.
If this had happened someplace
else, we couldn't have helped you.
[EXHALES LOUDLY]
When I woke up,
I was on the floor.
And I don't know
how it happened.
TOM: You can't remember?
I passed out.
I... I'll fix it.
[VOICE TREMBLING]
Just a game. Jesus.
[SOBS]
[SOBBING] Jesus, Jesus!
[INAUDIBLE]
GEARY: [SOBBING]
Jesus God! Oh, God!
[STUTTERING] I don't know, and I
don't understand why I can't remember.
You don't have to remember,
just do as I say.
We're putting a call
into your office,
explain that you'll
be there tomorrow afternoon.
You decided to spend the night at
Michael Corleone's house in Tahoe...
As his guest.
I do remember
that she was laughing.
We'd done it before,
and I know that I could not
have hurt that girl.
This girl has no family.
Nobody knows
that she worked here.
It'll be as though
she never existed.
All that's left
is our friendship.
KAY: Yes?
I'm sorry, Mrs. Corleone,
we're not to let you through.
I'm just going
to the market.
Well, if you'll just
give us a list,
we'll pick up anything
you want.
Whose orders are these?
Mr. Hagen's, ma'am.
He's coming over here now.
All right, well, I'm just goin'
to have to speak with Mr. Hagen.
I wanted to explain this,
but I had business in Carson City.
Now, this is Michael's
request for your safety.
Now, we can send out
for anything that you need.
I see. I'm supposed to
stay in my house?
No, within the compound
will be fine.
Tom, I was going to take the
children to New England next week.
That's off.
KAY: Am I a prisoner?
Is that it?
TOM: That's not the way
we look at it, Kay.
KAY: All right. Come on, kids.
We're going
back to the house.
Joe.
BOY: Cuba, Cuba!
[KIDS CLAMORING]
[BOYS CHATTERING
IN SPANISH]
PRESIDENT: Most respected
gentlemen.
[TRANSLATOR REPEATS
IN SPANISH]
PRESIDENT: Allow me to welcome
you to the city of Havana.
[TRANSLATING]
I want to thank this distinguished
group of American industrialists
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
for continuing
to work with Cuba
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
for the greatest
period of prosperity
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
in her entire history.
PRESIDENT: Mr. William Shaw,
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
representing
the General Fruit Company.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
PRESIDENT: Messrs.
Corngold and Dant, [TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
of United Telephone
and Telegraph Company.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
PRESIDENT: Mr. Petty,
Regional Vice President of the
Pan American Mining Corporation.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
PRESIDENT: Mr. Robert Allen
of South American Sugar.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
PRESIDENT: Mr. Michael
Corleone of Nevada,
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
representing our associates in
tourism and leisure activities.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
PRESIDENT: And my old friend
and associate from Florida,
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
PRESIDENT: Mr. Hyman Roth.
I would like to take this opportunity
to thank United Telephone and Telegraph
for their lovely
Christmas gift.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
A solid gold telephone.
Perhaps you gentlemen would
like to take a look at it.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
GUEST: Mr. President?
Yes?
GUEST: Perhaps you would discuss
the status of rebel activity
and, uh, what this can mean
to our businesses?
PRESIDENT: Of course.
Heavy stuff.
PRESIDENT: I assure you that,
although the rebels
have mounted an impressive
campaign in Las Villas,
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
my staff indicates,
with assurance,
that we'll drive them
out of the city of Santa Clara
before the New Year.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
PRESIDENT: And I want to
put you all at ease.
[TRANSLATOR TRANSLATING]
We will tolerate no guerrillas in
the casinos or the swimming pools.
[ALL LAUGHING]
[CAR HONKING]
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
[IN ENGLISH] He said that
they're making an arrest,
and in a few minutes
he'll let us through.
Johnny...
[SPEAKING IN ITALIAN]
It's nothing.
Just some lousy bandits.
The police are cleaning them up.
[REBEL SHOUTING
IN SPANISH]
Viva Fidel!
[CAR HORN BLARING]
[EXCLAIMS]
I hope my age
is correct.
I'm always accurate
about my age.
Make sure that everybody sees
the cake before we cut it.
[CLEARS THROAT]
I'm very pleased
you're all able to come from such
distances to be with me today.
When a man comes to
this point in his life,
he wants to turn over the
things he's been blessed with.
Turn them over to friends,
as a reward for the friends he's had
and to make sure
that everything goes well
after he's gone.
Not for years.
GUESTS: Hear, hear!
Well, we'll see. The doctors would
disagree, but what do they know?
These are wonderful things
that we've achieved in Havana
and there's no limit
to where we can go from here.
This kind of government knows how
to help business, to encourage it.
The hotels here
are bigger and swankier
than any of the rug joints
we put in Vegas.
And we can thank our friends
in the Cuban government
which has put up half the cash with the
Teamsters, on a dollar for dollar basis
and has relaxed
restrictions on imports.
What I'm saying is
that we have now
what we have
always needed...
Real partnership
with a government.
Smaller piece.
You all know
Michael Corleone
and we all remember
his father.
At the time
of my retirement,
or death,
I turn over all my interests
in the Havana operation
to his control.
Grazie.
But, all of you
will share.
The Nacionale will go
to the Lakeville Road Boys,
the Capri to
the Corleone family,
the Sevilla Biltmore also,
but Eddie Levine of Newport will
bring in the Pennino brothers,
Dino and Eddie, for a piece
and also to handle
the actual casino operations.
And we've saved a piece
for some friends in Nevada
to make sure that things
go smooth back home.
Uh...
I want all of you
to enjoy your cake.
So, enjoy!
GUESTS: Happy birthday!
L'chaim!
I saw an interesting thing
happen today.
A rebel was being arrested
by the military police.
And rather than be taken alive, he exploded
a grenade he had hidden in his jacket.
He killed himself and took a
captain of the command with him.
Right, Johnny? JOHNNY: Those
rebels, you know, they're lunatics.
Maybe so.
But it occurred to me,
that the soldiers are paid to fight,
the rebels aren't.
What does that
tell you?
They can win.
This country has had rebels
for the last 50 years.
It's in their blood.
Believe me, I know.
I've been coming here
since the '20s.
We were running molasses out
of Havana when you were a baby.
The trucks,
owned by your father.
Michael.
I'd rather we talked about
this when we're alone.
The two million
never got to the island.
I wouldn't want it to get around
that you held back the money
because you had second
thoughts about the rebels.
Ah, sit down, Michael.
Sit down.
[SIGHS]
If I could only live to see
it, to be there with you.
[EXCLAIMS LONGINGLY]
What I wouldn't give
for 20 more years.
Here we are, protected.
Free to make our profits
without Kefauver,
the goddamn Justice
Department and the FBI.
Ninety miles away, in partnership
with a friendly government.
Ninety miles.
It's nothing.
Just one small step
looking for a man that wants to
be President of the United States
and having the cash
to make it possible.
Michael,
we're bigger
than U.S. Steel.
Mikey, how are you?
Okay?
Hi! Uh, Freddie Corleone.
Jesus Christ,
what a trip!
The whole time I'm thinkin' "What if
somebody knows what I've got in here?"
Can you imagine that, huh?
Two million dollars on the
seat next to me in the plane.
Whoa. Excuse me.
No. It's okay.
You want to
count it?
Mikey, what the hell
is going on anyway?
I'm totally
in the dark.
The family is making
an investment in Havana.
This is a little gift
for the President.Oh.
[SIRENS WAILING IN A DISTANCE]
Well, that's great!
Havana's great.
It's my kind of town.
Anybody I know
in Havana?
I don't know.
Hyman Roth, Johnny Ola?
[SIRENS WAILING]
[QUIETLY] No.
No, I've never met them.
Listen, Mikey,
I'm, uh... I'm kind of...
Kind of nervous
from the trip.
[STUTTERING] Can I get
a drink or something?
I thought maybe
we'd go out together.
I know a place where we can
spend some time together. Okay?
Sometimes I think I should have
married a woman like you did.
Like Kay.
Have kids.
Have a family.
For once in my life,
be more like...
Pop.
[SPANISH SONG PLAYING]
It's not easy
to be a son, Fredo.
It's not easy.
You know, Mama
used to tease me.
She'd say, uh,
"You don't belong to me."
"You were left on the
doorstep by gypsies."
Sometimes
I think it's true.
You're no gypsy,
Fredo.
Mikey, I was
mad at you.
Why didn't we spend
time like this before?
You want a drink,
right? Waiter!
Uh... Por favor...
How do you say
Banana Daiquiri?
Banana Daiquiri.
That's it?
That's it.
UnoBanana Daiquiri.
WAITER: Banana Daiquiri, si senor.
And, uh, a club soda.
Senator Geary is flying in
from Washington tomorrow night
with some people,
some government people.
I want you to show them
a good time in Havana.
That's my specialty,
right?
Can I trust you
with something, Fredo?
Of course, Mike.
Later on in the evening we're all invited
to the Presidential Palace reception
to bring in the New Year.
After it's over,
they'll take me home
in a military car, alone.
For my protection.
Before I reach my hotel,
I'll be assassinated.
Who?
Roth.
It was Roth who tried
to kill me in my home.
It was Roth
all along.
He acts like I'm his son,
his successor.
But he thinks he's gonna
live forever and wants me out.
How can I help?
You just go along,
as though you know nothing.
I've already made
my move.
What move?
Hyman Roth will never
see the New Year.
[DOCTOR SPEAKING SPANISH]
[IN ENGLISH] Says you
have to take it easy.
And he's gonna give you a prescription.
He'll be back tomorrow.
I want my own doctor.
Fly him in from Miami.
I don't trust a doctor
who can't speak English.
WOMAN: Gracias, senor.
DOCTOR: Buenas noches.
Honey, go down to the casino.
Well, if you're sure
you're feeling better.
Feel fine.
[KISSES]
Play the bingo game.
Okay. Nice to see you,
Mr. Paul.
Just make yourself
at home.
My sixth sense tells me your brother
Fredo brought a bag full of money.
Where is it?
You're pulling out?
Just want to...
I just want to wait.
MICHAEL:
How do you feel?
[SCOFFS] Terrible.
I'd give four million just to be able
to take a piss without it hurting.
Who had
Frank Pentangeli killed?
The... Rosato brothers.
MICHAEL: I know,
but who gave
the go-ahead?
I know I didn't.
There was this kid
I grew up with.
He was younger
than me.
Sort of looked up
to me, you know.
We did our
first work together.
Worked our way
out of the street.
Things were good.
We made the most of it.
During Prohibition we
ran molasses into Canada.
Made a fortune.
Your father, too.
As much as anyone,
I loved him
and trusted him.
Later on
he had an idea
to build a city
out of a desert stop-over for
G.I.s on the way to the West Coast.
That kid's name
was Moe Greene
and the city he invented
was Las Vegas.
This was a great man.
A man of vision and guts.
And there isn't even
a plaque, or a signpost
or statue of him
in that town.
Someone put a bullet
through his eye.
No one knows
who gave the order.
When I heard it,
I wasn't angry.
I knew Moe,
I knew he was headstrong.
Talking loud,
saying stupid things.
So when he
turned up dead,
I let it go.
And I said to myself,
[SNAPS FINGERS]
"This is the business
we've chosen."
I didn't ask
who gave the order,
because it had nothing
to do with business.
That two million
in a bag in your room...
I'm going in
to take a nap.
When I wake,
if the money is
on the table,
I'll know I have a partner
If it isn't,
I'll know I don't.
[SHOW MUSIC PLAYING]
[MAN ANNOUNCING
IN SPANISH OVER PA]
[SINGING IN SPANISH]
All right, does everybody
know everybody here, huh?
This is Senator Geary,
you know him. How are you, Senator?
Good to see you, Mike.
I'm glad we could
spend this time together.
Right, this is Senator Payton
from Florida... How you doing, Mike?
This is Judge DeMalco
from New York...
How do you do, sir?
Fine, thank you.
Right... Senator Ream
from Maryland...
REEVES: Mike, I've been
looking forward to it.
Fred Corngold from UTT.
That Freddie does a mean
cha-cha-cha so watch out later on.
MICHAEL: Oh, he does, huh?
All right, gentlemen,
it's refill time here!
You might try some of the local
drinks, you know.
Cuba Libre...
Pina Colada...
I think I'll try one of those...
redheaded Yolandas.
That you got!
Con gusto...
MICHAEL: Johnny!
You don't know my brother
Fredo, do you, Johnny?
Johnny Ola, Fredo.
We never met.
Johnny Ola.
Pleasure.
Gentlemen,
to a night in Havana!
Happy New Year!
MAN: Happy New Year!
FREDO:
Feliz Ano Nuevo! Happy New Year.
FREDO: Right, huh?
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
FREDO: Okay, get in there.
GEARY: Never fear,
Pat Geary is here.
[SLOW MUSIC PLAYING]
GEARY: Hey! Hey, Freddie.
Why are we standing?
Everybody stands.
But it's worth it.
Watch. You're not gonna
believe this.
GEARY: I don't
believe it already.
FREDO: Huh? $50, right?
GEARY: You've got
a bet, mister.
[MUSIC CONTINUES]
[CROWD APPLAUDS] That's him.
That's Superman.
[CROWD EXCLAIMING] Did I
tell you or did I tell you?
I don't believe it!
MAN: That thing's
gotta be a fake.
That ain't no fake,
that's real.
That's why they
call him Superman.
Hey, Freddie, Freddie,
where did you find this place?
Johnny Ola told me about this place.
He brought me here.
I didn't believe him,
but seeing is believing, huh!
GEARY: I see it,
but still don't believe it!
FREDO: Fifty bucks, Pat.
Old man Roth would
never come here.
but Old Johnny knows these
places like the back of his hand!
Now watch him,
he's gonna break the cracker with it.
GEARY: Break a cracker...
I want to see him break a brick.
[WOMAN LAUGHING]
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
[GASPS]
[GRUNTS]
[SIREN WAILING]
Relax, SenorRoth,
we're taking you to the hospital.
[EXHALES DEEPLY]
[INDISTINCT CHATTER]
[DOOR OPENING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
GEARY: ...and in my judgment
you'll continue to get those
because I don't believe that President
Eisenhower would ever pull out of Cuba...
Not as long as we have over one billion
dollars invested in this country.
Now, the American public
believe in non-intervention...
Fredo!
Where are you going?
I'm going to get me a real
drink, because I can't...
[MAN GROANING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
What kept Mr. Roth?
I understood he was coming.
Hey, Reeves,
what's the protocol?
How long should we
stay around?
REEVES: Oh, I don't know.
I think a half hour
ought to do it.
Just long enough to
bring in the New Year.
[NURSES CHATTERING]
[SHUSHING]
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
It's New Year's Eve. Come on,
just for a minute.
[CHAMPAGNE CORK POPPING]
[PEOPLE LAUGHING]
[SHRIEKS]
[PEOPLE CHEERING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[SOFTLY] There's a plane waiting to
take us to take us to Miami in an hour.
Don't make a big thing
about it.
I know it was you, Fredo.
You broke my heart.
[WHISPERING FIERCELY]
You broke my heart!
[PEOPLE EXCLAIMING, CHEERING]
[FIREWORKS WHISTLING,
EXPLODING]
[MAN SHOUTING IN SPANISH]
[SPEAKING SPANISH]
Due to serious setbacks to our
troops in Guantanamo and Santiago...
...my position in Cuba
is untenable.
I am resigning from office
to avoid further bloodshed.
And I shall
leave the city immediately.
I wish all of you good luck.
Salud! Salud! Salud!
[MAN ON MEGAPHONE
SPEAKING SPANISH]
[EXPLOSION]
[PEOPLE SHOUTING]
[CAR HONKING]
[SIREN WAILING]
MICHAEL: Fredo!
Come on.
Come with me.
It's the only way
out of here tonight.
Roth is dead. Fredo...
Fredo, come with me!
You're still my brother.
Fredo!
[TIRES SCREECHING]
[MAN ON MEGAPHONE
ANNOUNCING IN SPANISH]
[PEOPLE CLAMORING]
I'm Pat Geary,
United States Senator.
[CHANTING SLOGANS IN SPANISH]
Please, I must leave!
[MAN ON MEGAPHONE
CHANTING SLOGANS IN SPANISH]
[CROWD CHEERING]
CROWD: [CHANTING]
Fidel! Fidel! Fidel!
Al. Get me
a wet towel.
Kay know I'm back?
What about my boy?
Did you get him
something for Christmas?
I took care of it.
What was it,
so I'll know?
Well, it was a little car with an
electric motor that he can ride in.
It's nice.
Thank you, Al.
Fellows, could you step
outside for a minute, please?
Where's my brother?
Uh...
Roth got out on a private boat.
He's in a hospital in Miami.
He had a stroke,
but recovered okay.
Your bodyguard is dead.
I asked about Fredo.
I think he got out.
He must be somewhere in New York.
All right.
I want you to get
in touch with him.
I know he's scared.
Tell him everything is all right.
Tell him I know
Roth misled him.
That he didn't know
they would try to kill me.
They can come in now.
TOM: Uh, there was
something else.
What?
What? Come on. What?
Kay had a miscarriage.
She lost the baby.
Was it a boy?
Mikey, after three
and a half months...
[SHOUTING] Can't you give
me a straight answer anymore?
Was it a boy?
TOM: I really
don't know.
[BABY CRYING IN A DISTANCE]
[BABY CRYING]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Poor little Fredo,
he's got pneumonia.
[HORN HONKING]
[EXCLAIMS]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Young man, I hear you and
your friends are stealing goods.
But you don't even send a
dress to my house. No respect!
You know I've got
three daughters.
This is my neighborhood.
You and your friends should
show me some respect.
You should let me wet
my beak a little.
[CHUCKLES]
I hear you and your friends
cleared $600 each.
Give me $200 each, for your own
protection. And I'll forget the insult.
You young punks have to learn
to respect a man like me!
[BRAKES SQUEALING]
Otherwise the cops will
come to your house.
And your family
will be ruined.
Of course if I'm wrong about how much
you stole - I'll take a little less.
And by less, I only mean -
a hundred bucks less.
Now don't refuse me.
Understand, paisan?
[SPEAKS MENACINGLY]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
I understand.
My friends and I
share all the money.
So first,
I have to talk to them.
Tell your friends I don't want a lot.
Just enough to wet my beak.
Don't be afraid to tell them!
600 bucks...
Suppose we don't pay?
You know his gang, Tessio.
Real animals.
Maranzalla himself let Fanucci
work this neighborhood.
He's got connections with the
cops, too. We haveto pay him.
$200 each... everybody agreed?
Why do we have to pay him?
Vito, leave this to us.
He's one person, we're three.
He's got guns, we've got guns.
Why should we give him the
money we sweated for?
This is hisneighborhood!
I know two bookies who don't
give anything to Fanucci.
CLEMENZA: Who?
Joe The Greek
and Frank Pignattaro.
They don't pay Fanucci.
If they don't pay Fanucci, then
somebody else collects for Maranzalla!
We'll all be better off if we
pay him. Don't worry.
Now what I say
stays in this room.
If you both like, why not give
me $50 each to pay Fanucci?
I guarantee he'll accept
what I give him.
If Fanucci says $200...
...he meansit, Vito!
I'll reason with him.
Leave everything to me.
[IN ENGLISH] I'll take
care of everything.
I will sort everything out.
I never lie to my friends.
Tomorrow you both
go talk to Fanucci.
He'll ask for the money.
Tell him you'll pay whatever he wants.
Don't argue with him.
Then I'll go
and get him to agree.
Don't argue with him, since
he's so tough.
How can you get him
to take less?
That's my business.
Just remember
that I did you a favor.
Is it a deal?
Si.
Ah.
Salute!
[BAND PLAYING MUSIC]
[BAND PLAYING
THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
His family's
out of the house.
Fanucci's alone
in the cafe.
[IN ENGLISH]
Vito, here's my $50. Buona fortuna.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Are you sure
he's going to go for it?
[IN ENGLISH] I'll make
an offer he don't refuse.
Don't worry.
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
It looks like there's -
$100 under my hat.
I was right.
Only $100...
I'm short of money right now.
I've been out of work...
so just give me a little time.
You understand, don't you?
[CHUCKLING]
You've got balls, young man!
How come I never heard
of you before?
You've got a lot of guts.
I'll find you some work
for good money.
[SLURPING]
No hard feelings, right?
If I can help you, let me know.
You've done well
for yourself.
Enjoy the festa!
[DOOR CLOSES]
MAN: Don Fanucci.
Greetings!
[CHEERING AND APPLAUSE]
[PUPPETEER SPEAKING ITALIAN]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Oh, this is
too violent for me!
[PRIEST SPEAKING LATIN]
[KEYS JINGLING]
[EXHALES DEEPLY]
[FUMBLING WITH LOCK]
[FIREWORKS EXPLODING]
[CROWD CHEERING]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
What've you got there?
[GUN FIRING]
[GROANS]
[FIREWORKS BURSTING]
[GASPS]
[SCREAMS]
[CROWD CHEERING]
[METAL CLATTERING]
[PEOPLE CHATTERING EXCITEDLY]
[MUSICIAN SINGING MELANCHOLY
MELODY IN ITALIAN]
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Michael, your father loves you
very much.
[MACHINE WHIRRING SOFTLY]
SENATOR: [IN ENGLISH] Mr. Cicci,
from the year 1942 to the present time,
you were an employee of
the Genco Olive Oil Company?
That's right.
But in actuality
you were a member
of the Corleone
crime organization.
Uh... No, we called it the
Corleone family, Senator.
We call it the family.
What was
your position?
At first, like everybody
else, I was a soldier.
What is that?
CICCI: A button, you know,
Senator, come on.
No, I don't know.
Tell me.
When the boss says
"push a button" on a guy,
I push a button.
See, Senator?
CHAIRMAN: Mr. Questadt.
You mean
you kill people?
CICCI: I what?
You kill people at the, uh,
at the behest
of your superiors.
[INAUDIBLE]
Yeah, that's right,
Counselor.
QUESTADT: And the, uh, the head of
your family is Michael Corleone?
Yeah, Counselor.
Michael Corleone. Right.
SENATOR: Did you ever get such an
order directly from Michael Corleone?
No, I never
talked to him.
Mr. Cicci,
could you amplify your answer a bit?
CICCI: Do what?
Could you expand
on your answer?
I'm particularly
interested in knowing, uh,
was there always
a buffer involved?
Someone in between you and your possible
superiors who gave the actual order.
Right, yeah, a buffer.
The family had
a lot of buffers!
[PEOPLE LAUGHING]
CHAIRMAN: Mr. Cicci, you may
find this very amusing,
but the members of
this committee do not.
[IN ITALIAN] Tell me something,
Ma.
What did Papa think...
deep in his heart?
He was being strong...
Strong for his family.
But by being strong
for his family...
...could he...
...lose it?
You're thinking about your
wife... about the baby you lost.
But you and your wife can
always have another baby.
No, I meant... lose his family.
But you can never lose
your family.
Times are changing.
[VENDOR SPEAKING IN ITALIAN]
[IN ITALIAN] It's my pleasure.
I don't want money.
Take it as a gift.
[SPEAKING IN ITALIAN]
[IN ENGLISH] If there's
something I can do for you,
you come,
we talk, huh.[SPEAKING IN ITALIAN]
[IN ITALIAN] Signora Colombo,
why did you come to see me?
Your wife told me to ask
if you could help me.
[IN ITALIAN] She's
in bad trouble.
Her neighbors complained to the
landlord about her dog.
He told her to get rid
of the animal.
But her little boy loves
that dog. So she hid it.
When the landlord found out, he
got mad and told her to leave.
Now she can't stay even if she
gets rid of it.
I'm so ashamed!
He said he'd get the police to
throw us out on the street.
I'm sorry, but...
I could give you a couple
dollars to help you move.
I can't move!
I want you to talk to him!
Tell him I want to stay here!
[BABY CRYING]
What's your landlord's name?
His name is Signor Roberto.
He lives on Fourth Street,
near here.
[IN ITALIAN] They break the
windows, they dirty the floors...
A real pig-sty, eh?
[SPEAKING IN ITALIAN]
[IN ITALIAN] My name
is Vito Corleone.
Signora Colombo
is a friend of my wife.
She says she's been evicted
for no good reason.
She's a poor widow,
she has nobody to take care of her.
She has no relatives, no money.
All she has is this neighborhood.
I already rented the place
to another family.
I told her that I'd talk to you.
That you're a reasonable man.
She got rid of the animal that
caused all the trouble.
So let her stay.
[IN ENGLISH]
Impossible.
[IN ITALIAN] Are you Sicilian?
No, I'm Calabrese.
We're practically paisan,
do me this favor.
I already rented it!
I'll look like an idiot.
Besides, the new tenants
pay more rent.
How much more a month?
Five bucks.
Here's six months increase
in advance.
But don't tell her about it.
She's very proud.
Come see me in another
six months.
[MAN SPEAKING IN ITALIAN]
Of course, the dog stays. Right?
[EXCLAIMS]
The dog stays.
[CURSES IN ITALIAN]
Who the hell are you
to come give me orders?
Watch out or I'll kick your
Sicilian ass right into the street!
Do me this favor.
I won't forget it.
Ask your friends in the
neighborhood about me.
They'll tell you I know how
to return a favor.
What a character!
[IN ITALIAN] That landlord
is here... Roberto,
the one who owns those ratholes.
He's been asking all around
the neighborhood about you.
I hope I'm not disturbing you,
Don Vito.
What can I do for you,
Don Roberto?
What a misunderstanding!
Holy Mary!
Of course Signora Colombo
can stay!
Grazie! Grazie!
I'm giving back the money
you gave me.
Un, due, three,
four, five, six, tutt'!
Because after all, Don Vito,
money isn't everything.
Can I sit down?
Your kindness to that widow
made me ashamed of myself.
[IN ENGLISH]
The rent stays like before!
[IN ITALIAN] I'll even lower it.
I'll lower it $5.
I'll lower it $10!
Grazie! Grazie!
Can I offer you some coffee?
[EXCLAIMS]
I'm late for an appointment! I
can't this time! Ask me another time!
You'll have to excuse me
for now.
[GIBBERING NERVOUSLY
IN ITALIAN]
I wish I could stay longer!
Just call me and I'll be here!
He won't be back.
He'll hide out in the Bronx!
CLEMENZA: Vito, what do you think?
God bless America.
We're gonna make
a big business.
[CAR HONKING]
[ALL SHOUTING IN ITALIAN]
[HORN BLARING]
MICHAEL: New York City.
CHAIRMAN: Would you mind speaking up, please?
New York City.
CHAIRMAN: Are you the son
of Vito Corleone?
Yes, I am.
CHAIRMAN: Where was he born?
MICHAEL: Corleone, Sicily.
Did he at times use an alias
that was known in certain
circles as Godfather?
Godfather is a term that was
used by his friends...
One of affection,
one of respect.
Uh, Mr. Chairman, I would like to
verify the witness' statement.
For years now, a growing number of my
constituents have been of Italian descent.
And I've come to
know them well.
They have honored me with their
support and with their friendship.
Indeed, I can proudly say
that some of my very best
friends are Italian-Americans.
However, Mr. Chairman,
at this time unfortunately
I have to leave
these proceedings
in order to preside over a very
important meeting of my own committee.
But before I leave,
I do want to say this,
that these hearings
on the Mafia
are in no way whatsoever
a slur upon
the great Italian people.
Because I can state from my
own knowledge and experience
that Italian-Americans are among
the most loyal, most law-abiding,
patriotic, hard-working
American citizens in this land.
It would be a shame,
Mr. Chairman,
if we allowed
a few rotten apples
to give a bad name
to the whole barrel.
Because from the time of the
great Christopher Columbus
up through the time
of Enrico Fermi,
right up to the present day,
Italian-Americans
have been pioneers
in building and defending
our great nation.
They are the salt
of the earth,
and they're one of the
backbones of this country.
[PEOPLE APPLAUDING]
[POUNDING GAVEL] MAN: The chairman
is calling the meeting back to order.
CHAIRMAN: I'm sure we all agree
with our esteemed colleague.
Now Mr. Corleone, you have been
advised as to your legal rights.
We have testimony from a previous
witness, one Willi Cicci.
He has stated that you are head of the
most powerful Mafia family in the country.
Are you?
MICHAEL: No, I'm not.
CHAIRMAN: The witness has testified
that you are personally responsible
for the murder of a New York
City police captain in 1947
and with him a man
named Virgil Sollozzo.
Do you deny this?
Yes, I do.
Is it true
that in the year 1950,
you devised the murder
of the heads of the so-called
"Five Families" in New York
to assume and consolidate
your nefarious power?
It's a complete
falsehood.
CHAIRMAN:
Mr. Questadt.
Is it true you have
a controlling interest
in three of the major
hotels in Las Vegas?
No, it's not true. I own some
stock in some of the hotels there,
but very little.
I also have stock
in IBM and IT&T.
Mr. Corleone, do you have any interests
or control over gambling and narcotics
in the state of New York?
No, I do not.
Senator, my client would like to read
a statement before this committee.
Mr. Chairman... Mr. Chairman,
I think this statement
is totally out of order
at this time.
Sir, my client has answered
every question
asked by this committee
with the utmost sincerity.
He hasn't taken the Fifth
Amendment, as it was his right to do.
So in all fairness,
this statement should be heard!
[INAUDIBLE]
No. No, I'm going to allow
Mr. Corleone to read his statement.
I'll put it in the record.
[READING] In the hopes
of clearing my family name
and in the sincere desire
to give my children
their fair share
of the American way of life,
without a blemish on
their name and background,
I have appeared
before this committee
and given it all the
cooperation in my power.
I consider it a great dishonor
to me personally
to have to deny
that I am a criminal.
I wish to have the following
noted for the record...
That I served my country faithfully
and honorably in World War II
and was awarded
the Navy Cross
for actions in defense
of my country.
That I have never been arrested or
indicted for any crime whatsoever.
That no proof linking me
to any criminal conspiracy
whether it is called Mafia
or Cosa Nostra
or whatever other name
you wish to give
has ever
been made public.
I have not taken refuge
behind the Fifth Amendment,
although it's my right
to do so.
I challenge this committee
to produce any witness
or evidence against me
and if they do not,
I hope they will have the
decency to clear my name
with the same publicity with
which they have besmirched it.
CHAIRMAN: I'm sure we're all
quite impressed, Mr. Corleone.
Particularly with your love
for our country.
The committee will stand in recess
until 10:00 a.m. Monday morning,
at which time the committee
will produce a witness
who'll corroborate the charges
which are made against you today.
At which time, Mr. Corleone,
you may very well be
subject to indictment
for perjury.
I remind you that you're still
under subpoena, Mr. Corleone.
This court is adjourned!
[PEOPLE CHATTERING ANIMATEDLY]
Ten-to-one. [CHUCKLES]
Ten-to-one shot, you said.
A ten-to-one shot he would
take the Fifth, and I'd lose.
You sound
like my bookie.
I owe that monkey
my life.
Well, just get
a good night's sleep.
[GRUMBLING]
Yeah. Good night sleep.
You've got a big day tomorrow.
I've got you a new
suit, new shirt, new tie.
I'm gonna shave you myself
in the morning.
And you're gonna look respectable for
50 million of your fellow Americans.
Tomorrow... My life? My life won't
be worth a nickel after tomorrow.
Come on! I saw this...
I saw this 19 times.
FBI MAN 1: You've got
a great home here, Frankie,
for the rest of your life.
Nobody gets near you,
you're not going anywhere.
[BILLIARD BALLS CLATTERING]
That's great. Beautiful.
Some deal I made.
Ah, you'll live like a king.
You'll be a hero.
You'll live better in here than
most people on the outside.
Some deal!
[SCOFFS]
MICHAEL:
[WHISPERING] Alive.
Pentangeli is alive.
How did they get
their hands on him?
Roth.
He engineered it, Michael.
When Frankie went to make a
deal with the Rosato brothers
and they tried to kill him.
He thought you
double-crossed him.
Our people with the New York detectives
said he was half dead, scared stiff
and talking out loud
that you'd turned on him.
They already had him on possession,
bookmaking, murder one and a lot more.
The FBI has him
airtight.
He's on an army base,
24-hour guards.
TOM: No way we can get to him.
You've opened yourself
to five counts of perjury.
What about Fredo?
What does he know?
He says he doesn't know
anything, and I believe him.
Roth, well, he... played
this one beautifully.
I'm going to talk to Fredo.
I haven't got
a lot to say, Mike.
We have time.
I was kept pretty much
in the dark.
I didn't know
all that much.
What about now?
Is there anything
you can help me out with?
Anything you can
tell me now?
They've got Pentangeli.
That's all I can tell you.
I didn't know it was
going to be a hit, Mike.
I swear to God I didn't know
it was gonna be a hit.
Johnny Ola bumped into me
in Beverly Hills.
And he said that he
wanted to talk.
He said that
you and... And Roth
were in on a big deal together.
And that there was something in
it for me if I could help him out.
He said that you were being
tough on the negotiations
but if they could get
a little help
and close
the deal fast,
it... It would be good
for the family.
And you believed
that story?
You believed that?
He said there was
something in it for me,
on my own!
I've always taken
care of you, Fredo.
[INCREDULOUSLY]
Taken care of me?
You're my kid brother!
You take care of me?
Did you ever think
about that, huh?
Did you ever once
think about that?
"Send Fredo off to do this,
send Fredo off to do that!"
"Let Fredo take care of some
Mickey Mouse nightclub somewhere."
"Send Fredo to pick
somebody up at the airport!"
I'm your older brother, Mike,
and I was stepped over!
MICHAEL: [SOFTLY]
That's the way Pop wanted it.
It ain't the way
I wanted it!
I can handle things,
I'm smart!
Not like everybody says.
Like dumb. I'm smart
and I want respect!
Is there anything you can tell
me about this investigation?
Anything more?
The Senate lawyer,
Questadt.
He belongs to Roth.
[SIGHS]
Fredo,
you're nothing
to me now.
You're not a brother,
you're not a friend.
I don't want to know you,
or what you do.
I don't want to see you
at the hotels.
I don't want you
near my house.
When you see
our mother,
I want to know a day in
advance, so I won't be there.
You understand?
Mikey.
I don't want anything to happen
to him while my mother's alive.
[PEOPLE CHATTERING SOFTLY]
REPORTER: Here he comes now.
There's more people
than at a ballgame in here.
[LAUGHING]
Hey, there's
Willi Cicci!
MAN: Frankie Five-Angels...
CHAIRMAN: This committee
will come to order!
CHAIRMAN: State your name,
please.
Frank Pentangeli.
CHAIRMAN: And where
were you born?
PENTANGELI: Partinico,
it's outside of Palermo.
And where do you
live now?
I live in an army barracks
with the FBI guys.
[PEOPLE LAUGHING]
We have here, finally,
a witness that will further testify
to Michael Corleone's rule
over a criminal empire
that controls all gambling in this
country and perhaps in other countries.
This witness
has had no buffer
between himself
and Michael Corleone.
He can corroborate
our charges on enough counts
for this committee to recommend a charge
of perjury against Michael Corleone.
Senator.
Thank you, Chairman.
SENATOR:
Mr. Pentangeli.
Were you a member
of the Corleone family?
Did you serve under
Caporegime, Peter Clemenza,
and under Vito Corleone,
also known as the Godfather?
I, uh, I never knew
no Godfather.
[PEOPLE MURMURING]
I have
my own family, Senator.
QUESTADT:
Mr. Pentangeli, you, uh...
You are contradicting
a sworn statement
that you previously
made to me and signed.
I ask you again, sir,
here and now under oath.
Were you at any time a member
of a crime organization
headed by Michael Corleone?
I don't know
nothing about that!
Oh!
I was in the olive oil
business with his father,
but that was
a long time ago. That's all.
We have a sworn affidavit.
We have it.
Your sworn affidavit,
that you murdered
on the orders of
Michael Corleone.
Do you deny
this confession,
and do you realize what will
happen as a result of your denial?
Look, the FBI guys,
they promised me a deal
so I made up a lot of stuff
about Michael Corleone,
'cause that's what
they wanted.
[STUTTERS]
But it was all lies.
Uh... Everything!
And I kept saying, uh,
"Michael Corleone did this" and
"Michael Corleone did that."
So I said, uh,
"Yeah, sure. Why not?"
Mr. Corleone, would you
kindly identify for the committee
the gentleman sitting to your left?
I can
answer that.
His name is
Vincenzo Pentangeli.
SENATOR 2: Is he related
to the witness?
He is, I believe,
his brother.
Will he come forward
and be sworn, sir?
Sir, this man does not
understand English.
He came at his own expense to aid
his brother in this time of trouble.
He's not under subpoena
and his reputation in his
own country is impeccable.
QUESTADT: Are you saying he knows
nothing about these matters?
To my knowledge,
nothing.
I'm going to find out
what the hell happened here!
All right, this committee
is now adjourned.
The witness is excused.
TOM: Senator!
Senator! This committee
owes an apology!
This committee owes an apology.
Apology, Senator!
[SPEAKING ITALIAN]
Michael, excuse me.
Hello, darling.
The children are outside.
We're going.
What do you mean, you're going?
We're all gonna leave tomorrow.
Uh, Rocco?
I'll be in
my room, Mike.
Michael, I'm not
going back to Nevada.
I brought the children
to say goodbye to you.
I want you to know,
I'm very happy for you.
I suppose I always knew you were too
smart to let any of them ever beat you.
Why don't you
sit down?
No, no, I'm not going
to stay long. I can't.
There are some things
I'd like to talk to you about.
Some things that have
been on my mind,
changes
I want to make.
I think it's too late
for changes, Michael.
I promised myself, I wasn't
going to say anything and now...
MICHAEL: What do you mean,
"too late"?
What really happened
with Pentangeli, Michael?
His brother came
and helped him.
KAY: I didn't even know
he had a brother.
And where is he now?
He's on a plane,
back to Sicily.
All he had to do
was show his face.
It was between
the brothers, Kay.
I had nothing
to do with it.
[GIGGLING]
MICHAEL: I don't want you going!
Not you, not the kids. No.
You're my wife,
they're my children.
I love you and
won't allow it.
Michael, you say you love me,
and then you talk about
allowing me to leave!
Listen, there are things that
have been going on for years
between men and women
that will not change. Michael, you're blind.
You've become blind,
Michael! Blind to what?
Look what's happened
to us, Mike.
My, God! Look what's happened
to our son, Michael! Nothing's happened to him.
Don't tell me nothing's... Anthony's fine!
Anthony is not fine!
I don't want to hear about it.
You will hear about it.
Anthony's friends... I don't want to hear about it.
I don't want to
hear about it!...are your button men!
Over!
At this moment I feel
no love for you at all.
I never thought
that would ever happen,
but it has.
Kay...
We're gonna leave
tomorrow.
Kay, why don't you take
the kids back to their room?
Michael,
you haven't heard me.
Kay, what do you
want from me?
Do you expect me
to let you go?
Do you expect me to let you
take my children from me?
Don't you know me? Don't you
know that that's an impossibility?
That, that could never happen.
That I'd use all my power to keep
something like that from happening?
Don't you know that?
Kay...
In time,
you'll feel differently.
You'll be glad
I stopped you now.
I know that.
I know you blame me
for losing the baby.
Yes.
I know what that
meant to you.
I'll make it up
to you, Kay.
I swear I'll make it up to you.
I'll...
I'm going to change.
I'll change. I've learned that
I have the strength to change.
Then you'll forget
about this miscarriage
and we'll have
another child.
And we'll go on,
you and I.
We'll go on.
[GROANS]
Oh, Michael!
Michael, you are blind.
It wasn't
a miscarriage.
It was an abortion.
An abortion, Michael.
Just like our marriage
is an abortion.
Something that's
unholy and evil!
I didn't want
your son, Michael!
I wouldn't bring another one
of your sons into this world!
It was an abortion,
Michael.
It was a son, a son,
and I had it killed
because this must all end!
I know now
that it's over.
I knew it then.
There would be
no way, Michael,
no way you could
ever forgive me.
Not with this Sicilian thing
that's been going on for 2,000...
[SCREAMS]
[SEETHING]
You won't take
my children.
[SOBBING] I will.
[BELLOWING] You won't
take my children!
[SOBBING] They're
my children too.
[BAND PLAYING]
[ALL CHATTERING]
Fredo, give this
to Grandmother.
[ALL COMMENTING APPRECIATIVELY
IN ITALIAN]
[CHATTERING IN ITALIAN]
[CHUCKLING]
[TOASTING IN ITALIAN]
[ROUSING QUIETLY]
[IN ITALIAN] Don Ciccio,
it's Tommasino.
Allow me the honor of
introducing someone.
My partner in America,
in New York.
His name is Vito Corleone.
We'll send him olive oil
from here.
To his company in America.
[READING IN ENGLISH]
[RESUMES IN ITALIAN] They're
olive oil importers, Don Ciccio.
We'd like your blessing,
and your permission to start work.
Where is this young man
from New York?
CICCIO: Have him come closer.
I can't see him so good.
[BECKONS IN ITALIAN]
My respects, Don Ciccio.
Give me your blessing.
Bless you!
What's your name?
[STATES HIS NAME IN ITALIAN]
[REPEATS INQUISITIVELY]
[LAUGHS]
You took the name of this town!
And what's your father's name?
His name was... Antonio Andolini.
Louder, I don't hear so good.
[SOFTLY] My father's name was
Antonio Andolini...
...and this is for you!
[SCREAMING]
[CURSING IN ITALIAN]
[GUN FIRING]
[CAR ENGINE STARTING]
[WARNING]
[GROANING]
Michael, say goodbye.
Hi, Al.
Tom? Can I speak with you
for a second, Tom?
Tom, where's Mike?
Waiting for you
to leave.
Can I talk
with him?
Sorry, Fredo.
No chance.
CONNIE:
Can I see him?
He's in
the boathouse.
CONNIE: Michael,
it's Connie.
Michael...
I'd like to stay close to home
now, if it's all right.
Is Kay coming?
No.
Michael, Fredo's in the house
with Mama.
He asked for you and Tom
said you wouldn't see him.
That's right.
Kids, why don't you
go outside for a while?
Michael please,
I want to talk to you.
Michael, I hated you
for so many years.
I think that I did
things to myself,
to hurt myself,
so that you'd know
that I could
hurt you.
You were just being strong for
all of us, the way Papa was.
And I forgive you.
Can't you forgive
Fredo?
He's so sweet,
and helpless without you.
You need me, Michael.
I want to take care
of you now.
Connie.
Tom, sit down.
[INQUIRING IN ITALIAN]
Our friend and business partner,
Hyman Roth, is in the news.
Did you hear
about it?
I hear that he's
in Israel.
Mmm-hmm.
The High Court in Israel turned down his
request to live there as a return Jew.
His passport's
been invalidated,
except for return
to the United States.
He landed in Buenos Aires
yesterday.
He offered a gift of a million
dollars if they'd let him live there.
They turned him down.
He's going
to try Panama.
Panama
won't take him.
Not for a million,
not for ten million.
ROCCO: His medical condition
is reported as terminal.
He's only gonna live
another six months anyway.
He's been dying of the same
heart attack for 20 years.
That plane
goes to Miami.
MICHAEL: That's right.
That's where I want it met.
Mike, that's impossible.
They'll turn him over directly
to the Internal Revenue,
Customs and half the FBI.
It's not impossible.
Nothing's impossible.
It would be like trying
to kill the President.
There's no way
we can get to him!
Tom, you know,
you surprise me.
If anything in this life
is certain,
if history has
taught us anything,
it's that you
can kill anyone.
Rocco?
Difficult.
Not impossible.
Good.
Why did you ask me if something
was wrong when I came in?
MICHAEL: I thought you were
going to tell me that
you were moving
your family to Vegas
and that you'd been offered the, uh, Vice
Presidency of the Houstan hotels there.
I thought that you were
gonna tell me that.
I turned 'em down.
I mean, do I have to tell you
about every offer that I turn down?
Let's do business.
TOM: All right.
Just consider this, Michael.
That's all. Just consider it.
Now, Roth and the Rosatos
are on the run.
Are they worth it,
are they strong enough?
Is it worth it?
You've won. Do you want
to wipe everybody out?
I don't feel I have to
wipe everybody out, Tom.
Just my enemies,
that's all.
Are you gonna come along with me on
these things I have to do, or what?
Because if not, you can take your
wife, your family and your mistress
and move them all
to Las Vegas.
[SNORTS]
Why do you hurt me,
Michael?
I've always been loyal to you.
I mean...
What is this?
[IN ITALIAN] Yes, I'm staying.
Now, what is it that
you want me to do?
Hey, Anthony.
Anthony, how would
you like it if I...
How would you like it
if I taught you
how to catch
the really big fish?
Would you
like that?
Okay.
You know,
when I was your age,
I went out fishing with all my
brothers and my father. Everybody.
I was... I was the only
one that caught a fish.
Nobody else could
catch one except me.
Do you know
how I did it?
Every time I put the line in
the water I said a Hail Mary
and every time I said a Hail
Mary, I caught a fish.
Do you believe that?
It's true.
That's the secret.
Do you want to try it when
we go out on the lake?
Okay.Okay.
What else
have you got?
[SIGHS FORCEFULLY]
Everything's gonna be
okay, Frankie, don't worry.
Did my brother
go back? Yeah, don't worry.
He's ten times tougher than
me, my brother.
He's old-fashioned.
Yeah.
He didn't even want
to go out to dinner,
he just wanted
to go straight home.
That's my brother!
There's nothing could get him
away from that two-mule town.
He could have been big here.
He could have had his own family.
Tom,
what do I do now?
Frankie.
You were always interested
in politics and history.
I remember you talking
about Hitler back in '33.
Yeah, I still
read a lot.
I get good stuff
in there.
You were around
the old-timers,
who dreamed of how the
families should be organized,
basing them on
the old Roman legions,
and call 'em "regimes,"
the "capos" and "soldiers."
And it worked.
Yeah,
it worked.
Those were the great
old days, you know.
We was like
the Roman Empire.
The Corleone family
was like the Roman Empire.
Yeah,
it was once.
Frankie.
When a plot against
the Emperor failed,
the plotters were
always given a chance
to let their families
keep their fortunes.
Right?
Yeah, but only
the rich guys, Tom.
The little guys,
they got knocked off
and all their estates
went to the Emperors.
Unless they went home
and they killed themselves,
then nothing
happened.
And their families...
Their families were taken care
of, Tom.
That was a good break,
a nice deal.
Yeah.
They, uh,
they went home
and sat
in a hot bath,
opened up
their veins
and bled
to death.
And sometimes they had a little
party before they did it.
Don't worry about anything,
Frankie Five-Angels.
Thanks, Tom.
Thanks.
See you, Tom.
TOM: Addio,
Frankie.
Kay. You have to go.
So pretty...
Kay, please hurry.
He's coming.
[INDISTINCT CONVERSATION]
Anthony.
Kiss Mama goodbye.
Anthony,
will you kiss your mother goodbye!
Anthony, say goodbye to Mama.
Anthony. I love you, Anthony.
Kay, please.
All right.
Mary, come here.
Anthony.
Anthony, please.
Kiss me once.
[KAY SOBBING]
[BOAT ENGINE ROARING DISTANTLY]
Easy.
CONNIE: Anthony!
Anthony!
He's here,
we're going fishing.
No!
Michael wants to
take him to Reno now.
Oh, shit!
Okay, kid, you have to go
to Reno with your pop.
Come on, Anthony, I'll take you
fishing again tomorrow, okay?
Huh?
Okay.
Atta boy.
Hey, Anthony.
Listen, I'll catch one
for you with the secret. Huh?
All right? Okay, good.
Okay, let's go.
Mr. Roth, you understand I'll
have to take you into custody.
Yes, I understand.
REPORTER: Can you give us
your reaction
to the High Court
of Israel's ruling?
I'm a retired investor
on a pension.
I went to Israel because
I wish to live there as a Jew,
in the twilight of my life.
Hey, Frankie!
Come on out, let's play some Hearts.
Frankie!
REPORTER 2: Is it true you're
worth over $300 million, Mr. Roth?
I'm a retired investor,
living on a pension.
I came home to vote
in the presidential election
because they wouldn't
give me an absentee ballot.
[ALL LAUGHING]
[GUN FIRING]
[PEOPLE SCREAMING]
[GUN FIRES]
Jesus Christ.
FREDO: Hail Mary, full of grace.
The Lord is with thee.
Blessed art thou
amongst women.
Blessed is the fruit
of thy womb, Jesus.
Holy Mary, Mother of God,
pray for us sinners.
[GUN FIRING]
Hey! Everybody, come on,
pay attention. Come here.
This is my friend
Carlo Rizzi.
My brother Fredo. Oh,
you know my brother Fredo.Sure.
This is my
stepbrother Tom,
and that's
his girl Theresa.
This cute little thing over
here is my sister Connie
I was tellin' you
about, huh?
Come on, say hello to Carlo.
He's good-looking, isn't he?
Yes.
[CHUCKLING]
Oh, that droopy thing over
there, that's my brother Mike.
We call him Joe College.
You know what I mean?
Go on. Sit down.
Go ahead.
Talk to each other.
Sit down.
Hey, Mr. Einstein...
[CHATTERING]
Here's the cake.
Hey, Sally,
get in here!
I was scared.
Come on.
Where's your father?
Took him on a wild goose chase.
Christmas shopping.
Let's see that thing.
[ALL EXCLAIMING]
Oh, honey,
that's nice, huh!
Should I put
the candles on now?
Yeah. Go on.
You help her, eh, Carlo.Sure.
Hey, what is that? Rum?
Yeah.
Oh, that's good.
Sonny, come on, don't touch
the antipasto until Pop sees it.
He's not ugly...
I say, what do you think of
the nerve of them Japs, huh?
Them slanty-eyed
bastards, huh?
Dropping bombs in our own
backyard on Pop's birthday.
They didn't know
it was Pop's birthday.
it was Pop's... [SCOFFS]
We should have expected it
after the oil embargo.
Expected?
Expected or not,
they've got no right
dropping bombs!
What are you a Jap-lover or
something, you on their side?
I understand 30,000 men
enlisted this morning.
Bunch of saps...
Why are they
saps?
Honey, come on,
we don't have to talk about the war.
Hey, you talk
to Carlo, all right?
They're saps because they risk
their lives for strangers.
Oh, that's Pop talking.
SONNY: You're goddamn right,
that's Pop talking!
They risk their lives
for their country.
Country ain't your blood.
You remember that.
I don't feel that way. SONNY: "I don't feel that way."
Well, if you don't
feel like that,
why don't you just quit
college and go to join the army!
I did.
I've enlisted
in the Marines.
Mike, why didn't you
come to us?
What do you mean?
Pop had to pull
a lot of strings
to get you a deferment.
I didn't ask
for it.
I didn't ask for deferment,
I didn't want it.
Come on, come on!
Knock it off!
Come on, hey, Sonny.
Punk!
Sonny.
Sonny, Sonny, sit.
No, no, you go on.
Sit... Sit down.
Mommy, Daddy's
fighting again!
[KIDS LAUGHING]
Go and show Carlo
the tree.
[GIRL CHATTERING]
Nice.
Break your father's
heart on his birthday.
That's swell, Mike.
Congratulations.
That's right,
encourage him!
Go on.
Get me a drink.
Go on!
You gotta understand that
your father has plans for you.
Many times he and I have
talked about your future.
You've talked to my father
about my future?
My future.
Mikey, he has
high hopes for you.
Well, I have my own plans
for my future.
Did you go to college
to get stupid?
You're really stupid.
He's here! Come on!
Come on. Come on.
Stupid!
[DOOR OPENING]
ALL: Surprise!
ALL:  For he's
a jolly good fellow
For he's
That nobody can deny
Nobody can deny...